A case in this video we're going to be looking at constraints.
So constraints placed on columns within tables and they used to restrict what values can be entered
into those columns.
So we've already seen data types which are applied to columns which restrict the data which can be entered
into a column.
So this is kind of a constraint.
So now we're going to take a look at some other constraints within my school which we can place on our
columns.
So the first constraint we look at is not no constraint.
And this means that a column can contain any no values.
If we put no constraint onto that column.
So we saw in our coffee store database that some of our customers didn't provide us with a phone number
and we had no value placed in phone number column.
But if we are to apply not no constraint to this column then we wouldn't have been able to place these
values and we would have required a phone number from our customers.
So this is more than not no constraint does two columns.
It requires that you have to have a value entered into that column and then the next one is the unique
constraint.
And if we apply the unique constraint to a column that means we can place any duplicate values of data
into that column.
So if we try to enter a value into a column which already contained that value we would actually get
an error and we wouldn't be able to enter that data.
So every row of data in that column must be unique if it has the unique constraint applied to that column
and the next two constraints.
We've actually seen already so primary key foreign key.
So the primary key is a column that uniquely identifies each are of data within the table and foreign
key is a column which is related to a primary key in another table.
So we use foreign keys and primary keys to linked tables together.
And then next type of constraint is the check constraint.
So if we apply a check constraint to a column this will control the values that can be inserted into
that column.
So as an example where we have a check on the ratings column in a table.
So this is like film ratings and is saying that any value inserted into this ratings column must be
between zero and 100.
So this is like for Metacritic school or just a rating out of 100 were allowed to enter data between
0 and 100 into this column.
So this is what the check constraint does.
And the last constraint we look at is 34 constrain and the default constraint allows you to set a default
value which will be entered into a column when you're writing insert into queries.
So say you inserting data into the Customers table for the first and last name.
If you answer in a blank value for the last name and the last name column has a default value set to
Smiff then it's going to interest me if for every time you leave that blank.
So every time you do insert into Joe on a first name and then blank for last name is going to enter
the default value which is Smith.
So we have an example here of e-mail column which has a default value set to no data.
So if you are inserting a new customer into your customer table and they didn't provide an e-mail you
could leave it blank and then the default will set this to no data.
So that's it for the different types of constraints in my sorrow when we create a system our booking
system database we're going to be looking at setting some of these constraints to our table columns.
But for now that's it for this video.